chore(docs): rewrite readme to reflect 2.0 development (#3944)
SwissDataScienceCenter/renku: README.md

computational sessions. Projects are assembled by piecing together:

- **Data connectors**: connect virtually any cloud-based or on-premise
data source, like S3 buckets, WebDav or SFTP servers. Once you create a
data connector, it can be reused across all of your projects and even be
made available to your group or community.

- **Source code**: link the source code repositories you are used to, like
GitHub or GitLab and easily work on it within your project sessions.

- **Compute environments**: use one of our pre-configure environments with
VSCode, RStudio or Jupyter inside or have Renku build an image to match
your repository\'s requirements. Alternatively, bring your own docker
image and share it easily with others to really make your code and data
sing.

> [!NOTE]  
> Renku is currently being rewritten; the new version, Renku 2.0 will
> replace the \"legacy\" functionality fully in late Spring 2025. All of
> the material linked below refers to the new version.

## Getting Started

A public instance of **RenkuLab** is available at
https://renkulab.io/v2. To start exploring Renku, feel free to make an
account and try it out! You can follow the [hands-on

> tutorial](https://renku.notion.site/Renku-2-0-Tutorials-1460df2efafc80c2b27acd221aa34a24?p=1a50df2efafc800f8554e30fd7458fa6&pm=s)

Reviewer: This link opens the tutorial as a side panel. Is this intended?

Author: I know I saw that - I don't think it's a problem?

Reviewer: It confused me at least. I would rather have the full page.

or visit our [Community
Portal](https://renku.notion.site/Renku-Community-Portal-2a154d7d30b24ab8a5968c60c2592d87).

## Documentation

-   [Tutorials](https://renku.notion.site/Renku-2-0-Tutorials-1460df2efafc80c2b27acd221aa34a24):
    how to get your Renku work off the ground
-   [How-to
    Guides](https://renku.notion.site/Renku-2-0-How-To-Guides-900f417fc205439789a9fbdc5cadcec8):
    recipes for common use-cases with Renku for users and administrators
-   [Reference](https://renku.notion.site/Renku-2-0-Reference-874b6f7b83a044598f5bdbf1193cb150):
    various concepts explained in detail.

> -   [Renku 2.0 blog post](https://blog.renkulab.io/deep-dive-2-0/): discover what is new in Renku 2.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [Renku 2.0 blog](https://blog.renkulab.io/): discover what is new in Renku, for example [How Renku 2.0 is different from Renku Legacy](https://blog.renkulab.io/deep-dive-2-0/):
```

Just a suggestion to make the link to the blog more general purpose

> -   [\"Legacy\" documentation:](https://renku.readthedocs.org): the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [\"Legacy\" documentation](https://renku.readthedocs.org): the
```

# Renku

> [![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/renku/badge/)](http://renku.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Author: yes! I meant to do it but forgot - thanks!
